The mediator pattern is used to takes the role of a hub or router and facilitates the communication between many classes. 
A similarity can be made with the database systems. 
The mediator transform a hard to implement relation of many to many, where each calls has to communicate with each other class, in 2 relations, 
easy to implement, of many to one and one to many, where the communication is handled by the mediator class.

Example:
The chat application is an example of the mediator pattern. 
In a chat application we can have several participants. It's not a good idea to connect each participant to all the others because the number of 
connections would be really high, there would be technical problems due to proxies and firewalls, etc... . 
The most appropriate solution is to have a hub where all participants will connect; this hub is just the mediator class.

Participants:
Chatroom(Mediator) - Defines the interface for interacting with participants
ChatroomImpl (ConcreteMediator) - implements the operations defined by the Chatroom interface. The operations are managing the interactions between the objects: when one participant sends a message, 
								  the message is sent to the other participants.
Participant(Collegue) - defines an interface for the participants.
HumanParticipant, Bot (ConcreteCollegue) - implements participants; the participant can be a human or a bot, 
											each one having a distinct implementation but implementing the same interface. 
											Each participant will keep only a reference to the mediator.
Example 2:
Air traffic controller is a great example of mediator pattern where the airport control room works as a mediator for communication between different flights. 
Mediator works as a router between objects and it can have it’s own logic to provide way of communication.	

										
Related Patterns
There are a few design patterns that are closely related to the Mediator pattern and are often used in conjunction with it.

Facade Pattern - a simplified mediator becomes a facade pattern if the mediator is the only active class and the colleagues are passive classes. 
				A facade pattern is just an implementation of the mediator pattern where mediator is the only object triggering and invoking actions on
				passive colleague classes. The Facade is being call by some external classes.
Adapter Pattern - the mediator patter just "mediate" the requests between the colleague classes. 
				  It is not supposed to change the messages it receives and sends; if it alters those messages then it is an Adapter pattern.
Observer Pattern - the observer and mediator are similar patterns, solving the same problem.
				  The main difference between them is the problem they address.
				  The observer pattern handles the communication between observers and subjects or subject. 
				  It's very probable to have new observable objects added. On the other side in the mediator pattern the mediator class 
				  is the the most likely class to be inherited.